docs/guide/concepts/ai_functions.md, before:

# 🪄 AI Functions

![](../../img/heroes/ai_fn_fruits_hero.png)

!!! tip "Features"
    🎉 Create AI functions with a single `@ai_fn` decorator

    🧱 Use native data structures (or Pydantic models!) as inputs and outputs

    🔗 Chain or nest calls to create functional AI pipelines

    🧙 Add features to code that would be difficult or impossible to write yourself

AI functions are functions that are defined locally but use AI to generate their outputs. Like normal functions, AI functions take arguments and return structured outputs like `lists`, `dicts` or even Pydantic models. Unlike normal functions, they don't need any source code! 


Consider the following example, which contains a function that generates a list of fruits. The function is defined with a descriptive name, annotated input and return types, and a docstring -- but doesn't appear to actually do anything. Nonetheless, because of the `@ai_fn` decorator, it can be called like a normal function and returns a list of fruits.

```python hl_lines="4"
from marvin import ai_fn


@ai_fn
def list_fruits(n: int) -> list[str]:
    """Generate a list of n fruits"""


list_fruits(n=3) # ["apple", "banana", "orange"]
```
!!! tip
    AI functions work best with GPT-4, but results are still very good with GPT-3.5.

## When to use AI functions
Because AI functions look and feel just like normal functions, they are the easiest way to add AI capabilities to your code -- just write the definition of the function you want to call, and use it anywhere! However, though they can feel like magic, it's important to understand that there are times you should prefer not to use AI functions.


Modern LLMs are extremely powerful, especially when working with natural language and ideas that are easy to discuss but difficult to describe algorithmically. However, since they don't actually execute code, computing extremely precise results can be surprisingly difficult. Asking an AI to compute an arithmetic expression is a lot like asking a human to do the same -- it's possible they'll get the right answer, but you'll probably want to double check on a calculator. On the other hand, you wouldn't ask the calculator to rewrite a paragraph as a poem, which is a perfectly natural thing to ask an AI. Bear in mind that AI functions are (relatively) slow and expensive compared to running code on your computer. 

Therefore, while there are many appropriate times to use AI functions, it's important to note that they complement normal functions incredibly well and to know when to use one or the other. AIs tend to excel at exactly the things that are very hard to describe algorithmically. If you're doing matrix multiplication, use a normal function. If you're extracting all the animals that are native to Europe from text, use an AI function.

Here is a guide for when to use AI functions:

- Generating data (any kind of text, but also data matching a certain structure or template)
- Translating or rewriting text
- Summarization
- Sentiment analysis
- Keyword or entity extraction
- Asking qualitative questions about quantitative data
- Fixing spelling or other errors
- Generating outlines or action items
- Transforming one data structure to another

Here is a guide for when NOT to use AI functions:

- The function is easy to write normally
- You want to be able to debug the function
- You require deterministic outputs
- Precise math beyond basic arithmetic
- You need any type of side effect or IO (AI functions are not "executed" in a traditional sense, so they can't interact with your computer or network)
- The objective is TOO magic (tempting though it may be, you can't write an AI function to solve an impossible problem)


## Basic usage

The `ai_fn` decorator can be applied to any function. For best results, the function should have an informative name, annotated input types, a return type, and a docstring. The function does *not* need to have any source code written, but advanced users can add source code to influence the output in two different ways (see "writing source code")

When a `ai_fn`-decorated function is called, all available information is sent to the AI, which generates a predicted output. This output is parsed and returned as the function result.


```python
from marvin import ai_fn

@ai_fn
def my_function(input: Type) -> ReturnType:
    """ 
    A docstring that describes the function's purpose and behavior.
    """

# call the function
my_function(input="my input")
```

Note the following:

1. Apply the decorator to the function. It does not need to be called (though it can take optional arguments)
2. The function should have a descriptive name
3. The function's inputs should have type annotations
4. The function's return type should be annotated
5. The function has a descriptive docstring
6. The function does not need any source code!

## Advanced usage

### Calling the function
By default, the `ai_fn` decorator will call your function and supply the return value to the AI. For functions without source code, this obviously has no consequence. However, you can take advantage of this fact to influence the AI result by returning helpful or preprocessed outputs. Since the AI sees the source code as well as the return value, you can also influence it through comments. 

You can see this strategy used in the example that [summarizes text from Wikipedia](#summarize-text-from-wikipedia). In the example, the function takes in a page's title and uses it to load the page's content. The content is returned and used by the AI for summarization.

To disable this behavior entirely, call the decorator as `@ai_fn(call_function=False)`.

### Async functions
The `ai_fn` decorator works with async functions.

```python
from marvin import ai_fn

@ai_fn
async def f(x: int) -> int:
    """Add 100 to x"""

await f(5)
```

### Complex annotations
Annotations don't have to be types; they can be complex objects or even string descriptions. For inputs, the annotation is transmitted to the AI as-is. Return annotations are processed through Marvin's `ResponseFormatter` mechanism, which puts extra emphasis on compliance. This means you can supply complex instructions in your return annotation. However, note that you must include the word `json` in order for Marvin to automatically parse the result into native objects!

Therefore, consider these two approaches to defining an output:
```python
from marvin import ai_fn

@ai_fn
def fn_with_docstring(n: int) -> list[dict]:
    """
    Generate a list of n people with names and ages
    """



@ai_fn
def fn_with_string_annotation(n: int) -> 'a json list of dicts that have keys for name and age':
    """
    Generate a list of n people
    """



class Person(pydantic.BaseModel):
    name: str
    age: int

@ai_fn
def fn_with_structured_annotation(n: int) -> list[Person]:
    """
    Generate a list of n people
    """
```
All three of these functions will give similar output (though the last one, `fn_with_structured_annotation`, will return Pydantic models instead of dicts). However, they are increasingly specific in their instructions to the AI. While you should always try to make your intent as clear as possible to the AI, you should also choose an approach that will make sense to other people reading your code. This would lead us to probably prefer the first or third functions over the second, which doesn't look like a typical Python function.

### Plugins

AI functions are powered by [bots](bots.md), so they can also use [plugins](plugins.md). Unlike bots, AI functions have no plugins available by default in order to minimize the possibility of confusing behavior. You can provide plugins when you create the AI function:

```python
@ai_fn(plugins=[...])
def my_function():
    ...
```

## Examples

### Generate a list of fruits
```python
from marvin import ai_fn

@ai_fn
def list_fruits(n: int) -> list[str]:
    """Generate a list of n fruits"""


list_fruits(3) # ["apple", "banana", "orange"]
```

### Generate fake data according to a schema
```python
from marvin import ai_fn

@ai_fn
def fake_people(n: int) -> list[dict]:
    """
    Generates n examples of fake data representing people, 
    each with a name and an age.
    """


fake_people(3)
# [{'name': 'John Doe', 'age': 29},
#  {'name': 'Jane Smith', 'age': 34},
#  {'name': 'Alice Johnson', 'age': 42}]
```

### Correct spelling and grammar

```python
from marvin import ai_fn

@ai_fn
def fix_sentence(sentence: str) -> str:
    """
    Fix all grammatical and spelling errors in a sentence
    """

fix_sentence("he go to mcdonald and buy burg") # "He goes to McDonald's and buys a burger."
```

### Unit testing LLMs
One of the difficulties of building an AI library is unit testing it! While it's possible to make LLM outputs deterministic by setting the temperature to zero, a small change to a prompt could result in very different outputs. Therefore, we want a way to assert that an LLM's output is "approximately equal" to an expected value.

This example is actually used by Marvin itself! See `marvin.utilities.tests.assert_llm()`.

```python
@ai_fn()
def assert_llm(output: Any, expectation: Any) -> bool:
    """
    Given the `output` of an LLM and an expectation, determines whether the
    output satisfies the expectation.

    For example:
        `assert_llm(5, "output == 5")` will return `True` 
        `assert_llm(5, 4)` will return `False` 
        `assert_llm(["red", "orange"], "a list of colors")` will return `True` 
        `assert_llm(["red", "house"], "a list of colors")` will return `False`
    """

assert_llm('Hello, how are you?', expectation='Hi there') # True
```
### Summarize text

This function takes any text and summarizes it. See the next example for a
function that can also access Wikipedia automatically.

```python
from marvin import ai_fn

@ai_fn
def summarize(text: str) -> str:
    """
    Summarize the provided text
    """

import wikipedia
page = wikipedia.page('large language model')
summarize(text=page.content)
# Large language models (LLMs) are neural networks with billions of parameters
# trained on massive amounts of unlabelled text. They excel at various tasks and
# can capture much of human language's syntax and semantics. LLMs use the
# transformer architecture and are trained using unsupervised learning. Their
# applications include fine-tuning and prompting for specific natural language
# processing tasks.
```

### Summarize text after loading a Wikipedia page

This example demonstrates how `ai_fn` can call a function to get additional information that can be used in producing a result. Here, the function downloads content from Wikipedia given a title.

```python
from marvin import ai_fn

@ai_fn
def summarize_from_wikipedia(title: str) -> str:
    """
    Loads the wikipedia page corresponding to the provided 
    title and returns a summary of the content.
    """
    import wikipedia
    page = wikipedia.page(title)

    # the content to summarize
    return page.content


summarize_from_wikipedia(title='large language model')
# A large language model (LLM) is a language model consisting of a neural
# network with many parameters (typically billions of weights or more), trained
# on large quantities of unlabelled text using self-supervised learning. LLMs
# emerged around 2018 and perform well at a wide variety of tasks. This has
# shifted the focus of natural language processing research away from the
# previous paradigm of training specialized supervised models for specific
# tasks.
```

### Suggest a title after loading a URL

This example demonstrates how `ai_fn` can call a function to get additional information that can be used in producing a result. Here, the function loads an article and then suggests a title for it.

```python
from marvin import ai_fn

@ai_fn
def suggest_title(url: str) -> str:
    """
    Suggests a title for the article found at the provided URL
    """

    import httpx

    # load the url
    response = httpx.get(url)

    # return the url contents 
    return marvin.utilities.strings.html_to_content(response.content)


suggest_title(url="https://techcrunch.com/2023/03/14/openai-releases-gpt-4-ai-that-it-claims-is-state-of-the-art/")
# OpenAI Releases GPT-4: State-of-the-Art AI Model with Improved Image and Text Understanding
```

### Generate rhymes

```python
from marvin import ai_fn

@ai_fn
def rhyme(word: str) -> str:
    """
    Generate a word that rhymes with the supplied `word`
    """

rhyme("blue") # glue
```

### Find words meeting specific criteria

```python
from marvin import ai_fn

@ai_fn
def find_words(text: str, criteria: str) -> list[str]:
    """
    Given text and some criteria, returns a list of 
    every word meeting that criteria.
    """

text = "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog."
find_words(text, criteria="adjectives") # ["quick", "brown", "lazy"]
find_words(text, criteria="colors") # ["brown"]
find_words(text, criteria="animals that aren't dogs") # ["fox"]
```



### Suggest emojis

```python
from marvin import ai_fn

@ai_fn
def get_emoji(text: str) -> str:
    """
    Returns an emoji that describes the provided text.
    """

get_emoji("incredible snack") # '🍿'
```

Commit message:

Add note about temperature and determinism

docs/guide/concepts/ai_functions.md, after:

# 🪄 AI Functions

![](../../img/heroes/ai_fn_fruits_hero.png)

!!! tip "Features"
    🎉 Create AI functions with a single `@ai_fn` decorator

    🧱 Use native data structures (or Pydantic models!) as inputs and outputs

    🔗 Chain or nest calls to create functional AI pipelines

    🧙 Add features to code that would be difficult or impossible to write yourself

AI functions are functions that are defined locally but use AI to generate their outputs. Like normal functions, AI functions take arguments and return structured outputs like `lists`, `dicts` or even Pydantic models. Unlike normal functions, they don't need any source code! 


Consider the following example, which contains a function that generates a list of fruits. The function is defined with a descriptive name, annotated input and return types, and a docstring -- but doesn't appear to actually do anything. Nonetheless, because of the `@ai_fn` decorator, it can be called like a normal function and returns a list of fruits.

```python hl_lines="4"
from marvin import ai_fn


@ai_fn
def list_fruits(n: int) -> list[str]:
    """Generate a list of n fruits"""


list_fruits(n=3) # ["apple", "banana", "orange"]
```
!!! tip
    AI functions work best with GPT-4, but results are still very good with GPT-3.5.

## When to use AI functions
Because AI functions look and feel just like normal functions, they are the easiest way to add AI capabilities to your code -- just write the definition of the function you want to call, and use it anywhere! However, though they can feel like magic, it's important to understand that there are times you should prefer not to use AI functions.


Modern LLMs are extremely powerful, especially when working with natural language and ideas that are easy to discuss but difficult to describe algorithmically. However, since they don't actually execute code, computing extremely precise results can be surprisingly difficult. Asking an AI to compute an arithmetic expression is a lot like asking a human to do the same -- it's possible they'll get the right answer, but you'll probably want to double check on a calculator. On the other hand, you wouldn't ask the calculator to rewrite a paragraph as a poem, which is a perfectly natural thing to ask an AI. Bear in mind that AI functions are (relatively) slow and expensive compared to running code on your computer. 

Therefore, while there are many appropriate times to use AI functions, it's important to note that they complement normal functions incredibly well and to know when to use one or the other. AIs tend to excel at exactly the things that are very hard to describe algorithmically. If you're doing matrix multiplication, use a normal function. If you're extracting all the animals that are native to Europe from text, use an AI function.

Here is a guide for when to use AI functions:

- Generating data (any kind of text, but also data matching a certain structure or template)
- Translating or rewriting text
- Summarization
- Sentiment analysis
- Keyword or entity extraction
- Asking qualitative questions about quantitative data
- Fixing spelling or other errors
- Generating outlines or action items
- Transforming one data structure to another

Here is a guide for when NOT to use AI functions:

- The function is easy to write normally
- You want to be able to debug the function
- You require deterministic outputs
- Precise math beyond basic arithmetic
- You need any type of side effect or IO (AI functions are not "executed" in a traditional sense, so they can't interact with your computer or network)
- The objective is TOO magic (tempting though it may be, you can't write an AI function to solve an impossible problem)


## Basic usage

The `ai_fn` decorator can be applied to any function. For best results, the function should have an informative name, annotated input types, a return type, and a docstring. The function does *not* need to have any source code written, but advanced users can add source code to influence the output in two different ways (see "writing source code")

When a `ai_fn`-decorated function is called, all available information is sent to the AI, which generates a predicted output. This output is parsed and returned as the function result.


```python
from marvin import ai_fn

@ai_fn
def my_function(input: Type) -> ReturnType:
    """ 
    A docstring that describes the function's purpose and behavior.
    """

# call the function
my_function(input="my input")
```

Note the following:

1. Apply the decorator to the function. It does not need to be called (though it can take optional arguments)
2. The function should have a descriptive name
3. The function's inputs should have type annotations
4. The function's return type should be annotated
5. The function has a descriptive docstring
6. The function does not need any source code!

## Advanced usage

### Customizing the LLM
By default, AI functions use Marvin's global LLM settings. However, you can change this on a per-function basis by providing a valid model name or temperature to the `@ai_fn` decorator.

For example, this function will always use GPT-3.5 with a temperature of 0.2.
```python
from marvin import ai_fn

@ai_fn(llm_model_name='gpt-3.5-turbo', llm_model_temperature=0.2)
def my_function():
    ...
```

#### Deterministic AI functions
LLM implementations like ChatGPT are non-deterministic; that is, they do not always return the same output for a given input. In some use cases, like natural conversation, this is desireable. In others, especially programmatic ones, it is not. You can control this by setting the model `temperature`. High temperature lead to greater variation is responses; a temperature of 0 will always give the same response for a given input. Marvin's default temperature is 0.8. To create a deterministic AI function, set its temperature to 0.

!!! note "Upgrading Marvin may change AI function outputs"
    Marvin wraps your AI function with additional prompts in order to get the LLM to generate parseable outputs. We are constantly adjusting those prompts to improve performance and address edge cases. Therefore, even with a temperature of 0, what your AI function sends to the LLM might change if you upgrade from one version of Marvin to another, resulting in different AI function outputs. Therefore, AI functions with `temperature=0` are only guaranteed to be deterministic for a specific Marvin version. 
### Calling the function
By default, the `ai_fn` decorator will call your function and supply the return value to the AI. For functions without source code, this obviously has no consequence. However, you can take advantage of this fact to influence the AI result by returning helpful or preprocessed outputs. Since the AI sees the source code as well as the return value, you can also influence it through comments. 

You can see this strategy used in the example that [summarizes text from Wikipedia](#summarize-text-from-wikipedia). In the example, the function takes in a page's title and uses it to load the page's content. The content is returned and used by the AI for summarization.

To disable this behavior entirely, call the decorator as `@ai_fn(call_function=False)`.

### Async functions
The `ai_fn` decorator works with async functions.

```python
from marvin import ai_fn

@ai_fn
async def f(x: int) -> int:
    """Add 100 to x"""

await f(5)
```

### Complex annotations
Annotations don't have to be types; they can be complex objects or even string descriptions. For inputs, the annotation is transmitted to the AI as-is. Return annotations are processed through Marvin's `ResponseFormatter` mechanism, which puts extra emphasis on compliance. This means you can supply complex instructions in your return annotation. However, note that you must include the word `json` in order for Marvin to automatically parse the result into native objects!

Therefore, consider these two approaches to defining an output:
```python
from marvin import ai_fn

@ai_fn
def fn_with_docstring(n: int) -> list[dict]:
    """
    Generate a list of n people with names and ages
    """



@ai_fn
def fn_with_string_annotation(n: int) -> 'a json list of dicts that have keys for name and age':
    """
    Generate a list of n people
    """



class Person(pydantic.BaseModel):
    name: str
    age: int

@ai_fn
def fn_with_structured_annotation(n: int) -> list[Person]:
    """
    Generate a list of n people
    """
```
All three of these functions will give similar output (though the last one, `fn_with_structured_annotation`, will return Pydantic models instead of dicts). However, they are increasingly specific in their instructions to the AI. While you should always try to make your intent as clear as possible to the AI, you should also choose an approach that will make sense to other people reading your code. This would lead us to probably prefer the first or third functions over the second, which doesn't look like a typical Python function.

### Plugins

AI functions are powered by [bots](bots.md), so they can also use [plugins](plugins.md). Unlike bots, AI functions have no plugins available by default in order to minimize the possibility of confusing behavior. You can provide plugins when you create the AI function:

```python
@ai_fn(plugins=[...])
def my_function():
    ...
```

## Examples

### Generate a list of fruits
```python
from marvin import ai_fn

@ai_fn
def list_fruits(n: int) -> list[str]:
    """Generate a list of n fruits"""


list_fruits(3) # ["apple", "banana", "orange"]
```

### Generate fake data according to a schema
```python
from marvin import ai_fn

@ai_fn
def fake_people(n: int) -> list[dict]:
    """
    Generates n examples of fake data representing people, 
    each with a name and an age.
    """


fake_people(3)
# [{'name': 'John Doe', 'age': 29},
#  {'name': 'Jane Smith', 'age': 34},
#  {'name': 'Alice Johnson', 'age': 42}]
```

### Correct spelling and grammar

```python
from marvin import ai_fn

@ai_fn
def fix_sentence(sentence: str) -> str:
    """
    Fix all grammatical and spelling errors in a sentence
    """

fix_sentence("he go to mcdonald and buy burg") # "He goes to McDonald's and buys a burger."
```

### Unit testing LLMs
One of the difficulties of building an AI library is unit testing it! While it's possible to make LLM outputs deterministic by setting the temperature to zero, a small change to a prompt could result in very different outputs. Therefore, we want a way to assert that an LLM's output is "approximately equal" to an expected value.

This example is actually used by Marvin itself! See `marvin.utilities.tests.assert_llm()`.

```python
@ai_fn()
def assert_llm(output: Any, expectation: Any) -> bool:
    """
    Given the `output` of an LLM and an expectation, determines whether the
    output satisfies the expectation.

    For example:
        `assert_llm(5, "output == 5")` will return `True` 
        `assert_llm(5, 4)` will return `False` 
        `assert_llm(["red", "orange"], "a list of colors")` will return `True` 
        `assert_llm(["red", "house"], "a list of colors")` will return `False`
    """

assert_llm('Hello, how are you?', expectation='Hi there') # True
```
### Summarize text

This function takes any text and summarizes it. See the next example for a
function that can also access Wikipedia automatically.

```python
from marvin import ai_fn

@ai_fn
def summarize(text: str) -> str:
    """
    Summarize the provided text
    """

import wikipedia
page = wikipedia.page('large language model')
summarize(text=page.content)
# Large language models (LLMs) are neural networks with billions of parameters
# trained on massive amounts of unlabelled text. They excel at various tasks and
# can capture much of human language's syntax and semantics. LLMs use the
# transformer architecture and are trained using unsupervised learning. Their
# applications include fine-tuning and prompting for specific natural language
# processing tasks.
```

### Summarize text after loading a Wikipedia page

This example demonstrates how `ai_fn` can call a function to get additional information that can be used in producing a result. Here, the function downloads content from Wikipedia given a title.

```python
from marvin import ai_fn

@ai_fn
def summarize_from_wikipedia(title: str) -> str:
    """
    Loads the wikipedia page corresponding to the provided 
    title and returns a summary of the content.
    """
    import wikipedia
    page = wikipedia.page(title)

    # the content to summarize
    return page.content


summarize_from_wikipedia(title='large language model')
# A large language model (LLM) is a language model consisting of a neural
# network with many parameters (typically billions of weights or more), trained
# on large quantities of unlabelled text using self-supervised learning. LLMs
# emerged around 2018 and perform well at a wide variety of tasks. This has
# shifted the focus of natural language processing research away from the
# previous paradigm of training specialized supervised models for specific
# tasks.
```

### Suggest a title after loading a URL

This example demonstrates how `ai_fn` can call a function to get additional information that can be used in producing a result. Here, the function loads an article and then suggests a title for it.

```python
from marvin import ai_fn

@ai_fn
def suggest_title(url: str) -> str:
    """
    Suggests a title for the article found at the provided URL
    """

    import httpx

    # load the url
    response = httpx.get(url)

    # return the url contents 
    return marvin.utilities.strings.html_to_content(response.content)


suggest_title(url="https://techcrunch.com/2023/03/14/openai-releases-gpt-4-ai-that-it-claims-is-state-of-the-art/")
# OpenAI Releases GPT-4: State-of-the-Art AI Model with Improved Image and Text Understanding
```

### Generate rhymes

```python
from marvin import ai_fn

@ai_fn
def rhyme(word: str) -> str:
    """
    Generate a word that rhymes with the supplied `word`
    """

rhyme("blue") # glue
```

### Find words meeting specific criteria

```python
from marvin import ai_fn

@ai_fn
def find_words(text: str, criteria: str) -> list[str]:
    """
    Given text and some criteria, returns a list of 
    every word meeting that criteria.
    """

text = "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog."
find_words(text, criteria="adjectives") # ["quick", "brown", "lazy"]
find_words(text, criteria="colors") # ["brown"]
find_words(text, criteria="animals that aren't dogs") # ["fox"]
```



### Suggest emojis

```python
from marvin import ai_fn

@ai_fn
def get_emoji(text: str) -> str:
    """
    Returns an emoji that describes the provided text.
    """

get_emoji("incredible snack") # '🍿'
```
