docs/guide/concepts/infra.md, before:

# ⚙️ Infra

!!! warning "Construction zone"
    This area of the docs is under active development and may change.

## Databases
### Sqlite
By default, Marvin uses a Sqlite database located at `~/.marvin/marvin.sqlite`. You can customize this by setting `MARVIN_DATABASE_CONNECTION_URL` to `sqlite+aiosqlite:////{path/to/database}`.

### Postgres
Marvin can also use Postgres (though this isn't as actively tested at this time). To do so, install the postgres extra: `pip install "marvin[postgres]"` and set `MARVIN_DATABASE_CONNECTION_URL` to `postgresql+asyncpg://{username}:{password}@{hots}:{port}/{database}`, filling all variables appropriately.

### Migrations
Marvin keeps the database schema up-to-date with Alembic migrations. If Marvin detects an empty database, it will run the initial migration update automatically. However, subsequent migrations will not be run automatically (to avoid any conflicts). Instead, Marvin checks to see if the database is up-to-date on startup and prints a warning if it isn't. You can disable this behavior by setting `MARVIN_DATABASE_CHECK_MIGRATION_VERSION_ON_STARTUP=0`.

After upgrading Marvin, or when you see the warning described above, you should upgrade the database by running:

```shell
marvin database upgrade
```

You will be asked to confirm the upgrade; pass `-y` to do so automatically (this can be useful in CI). The upgrade command is idempotent and safe to run multiple times; the database is only modified if necessary.

## Chroma 
Marvin [provides a simple wrapper](https://github.com/PrefectHQ/marvin/blob/main/src/marvin/infra/chroma.py) of the ChromaDB client to make it easier to interact with the database.

!!! warning "ChromaDB has a large memory footprint and is an optional dependency"
    ChromaDB uses `sentence-transformers` by default for embeddings, which requires `torch`. [`torch` has recently added wheels for Python 3.11](https://pypi.org/project/torch/2.0.0/#files).

    Although Marvin uses OpenAI's "text-embedding-ada-002" model offered via `chromadb.utils.embedding_functions`,
    `chromadb` enforces the `sentence-transformers` dependency at this time.

    Install the `chromadb` extra with `pip install marvin[chromadb]` to use ChromaDB.


Read the [ChromaDB usage guide](https://docs.trychroma.com/usage-guide) for more information.

### Relevance to Marvin
ChromaDB is an embeddings database that is used by Marvin to store and query document embeddings.

When you call `.load_and_store()` on a `Loader`, you are calling `Chroma.add` to store documents in the default collection.

`load_and_store` accepts an optional `topic_name` that corresponds to a collection in ChromaDB. If you want to store documents in a different collection, simply pass a different `topic_name` to `load_and_store` and the collection will be created for you or updated.

### Usage
If desired, you can use it directly:

#### Querying
```python
from marvin.infra.chroma import Chroma

async with Chroma() as chroma:
    query_results: dict[str, list] = await chroma.query(
        query_texts=["some natural language query"],
        where={"some_metadata_field": "has_this_value"},
        include=["documents", "metadatas"], # "ids" are always included
    )
```

#### Adding
```python
from marvin.infra.chroma import Chroma

async with Chroma(collection_name="my-new-collection") as chroma:
    await chroma.add(
        documents=["some text", "some other text"],
        metadatas=[{"some_metadata_field": "some_value"}, {"some_metadata_field": "some_other_value"}],
    )
```

Commit message:

Update db docs about Cloud SQL connect

docs/guide/concepts/infra.md, after:

# ⚙️ Infra

!!! warning "Construction zone"
    This area of the docs is under active development and may change.

## Databases
### Sqlite
By default, Marvin uses a Sqlite database located at `~/.marvin/marvin.sqlite`. You can customize this by setting `MARVIN_DATABASE_CONNECTION_URL` to `sqlite+aiosqlite:////{path/to/database}`.

### Postgres
Marvin can also use Postgres (though this isn't as actively tested at this time). To do so, install the postgres extra: `pip install "marvin[postgres]"` and set `MARVIN_DATABASE_CONNECTION_URL` to `postgresql+asyncpg://{username}:{password}@{host}:{port}/{database}`, filling all variables appropriately.

#### Postgres with GCP Cloud SQL
If you want to connect to GCP Cloud SQL

##### by local
```
cloud_sql_proxy -instances={project}:{region}:{instance}=tcp:5432`
MARVIN_DATABASE_CONNECTION_URL="postgresql+asyncpg:/{username}:{password}@localhost:5432/{database}"
```
##### through another GCP service
On cloud run or another GCP service 
```
postgresql+asyncpg://{username}:{password}@/{database}?host=/cloudsql/{project}:{region}:{db-instance}
```
For more detail, see the [GCP SQL docs](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/postgres/sql-proxy).

### Migrations
Marvin keeps the database schema up-to-date with Alembic migrations. If Marvin detects an empty database, it will run the initial migration update automatically. However, subsequent migrations will not be run automatically (to avoid any conflicts). Instead, Marvin checks to see if the database is up-to-date on startup and prints a warning if it isn't. You can disable this behavior by setting `MARVIN_DATABASE_CHECK_MIGRATION_VERSION_ON_STARTUP=0`.

After upgrading Marvin, or when you see the warning described above, you should upgrade the database by running:

```shell
marvin database upgrade
```

You will be asked to confirm the upgrade; pass `-y` to do so automatically (this can be useful in CI). The upgrade command is idempotent and safe to run multiple times; the database is only modified if necessary.

## Chroma 
Marvin [provides a simple wrapper](https://github.com/PrefectHQ/marvin/blob/main/src/marvin/infra/chroma.py) of the ChromaDB client to make it easier to interact with the database.

!!! warning "ChromaDB has a large memory footprint and is an optional dependency"
    ChromaDB uses `sentence-transformers` by default for embeddings, which requires `torch`. [`torch` has recently added wheels for Python 3.11](https://pypi.org/project/torch/2.0.0/#files).

    Although Marvin uses OpenAI's "text-embedding-ada-002" model offered via `chromadb.utils.embedding_functions`,
    `chromadb` enforces the `sentence-transformers` dependency at this time.

    Install the `chromadb` extra with `pip install marvin[chromadb]` to use ChromaDB.


Read the [ChromaDB usage guide](https://docs.trychroma.com/usage-guide) for more information.

### Relevance to Marvin
ChromaDB is an embeddings database that is used by Marvin to store and query document embeddings.

When you call `.load_and_store()` on a `Loader`, you are calling `Chroma.add` to store documents in the default collection.

`load_and_store` accepts an optional `topic_name` that corresponds to a collection in ChromaDB. If you want to store documents in a different collection, simply pass a different `topic_name` to `load_and_store` and the collection will be created for you or updated.

### Usage
If desired, you can use it directly:

#### Querying
```python
from marvin.infra.chroma import Chroma

async with Chroma() as chroma:
    query_results: dict[str, list] = await chroma.query(
        query_texts=["some natural language query"],
        where={"some_metadata_field": "has_this_value"},
        include=["documents", "metadatas"], # "ids" are always included
    )
```

#### Adding
```python
from marvin.infra.chroma import Chroma

async with Chroma(collection_name="my-new-collection") as chroma:
    await chroma.add(
        documents=["some text", "some other text"],
        metadatas=[{"some_metadata_field": "some_value"}, {"some_metadata_field": "some_other_value"}],
    )
```
